## Nilesh N. Shinde
# PhD Stduent, Forest Resources and Environmental Conservation, Virginia Tech (VA)
# The main subject matter of this dissertation research is seeking a better understanding ofhousehold land-use and land cover choices in developing countries, specifically in India andBrazil. In Brazil, I am investigating the relationship between conflicts over land ownershipand deforestation in the face of new environmental legislation in the Amazon region. Thisresearch involves data collection using Web Scraper with Python for land conflicts, remotesensing using Google earth engine and various secondary data sources, and the data analysisis performed using spatial econometric techniques. Chapter (1) employs a Difference-in-Difference (DiD) econometric model with multiple time periods [9] along-with a zero-inflatednegative binomial regression to account for the high number of municipalities with a valueof “zero” for the number of conflicts. We aim to test the CAR as a policy contributes to thereduction of land conflict and deforestation at municipality level. Followed by Chapter (2)which employs combined econometric and machine learning methods in order to estimatethe heterogeneous treatment effects from land use legislation changes and political shiftsacross different groups of landowners(or conditional average treatment effect–CATE) [7].In India, I am studying the household’s land use choices in village economy. The researchemploys primary survey data analysis using discrete choice modeling between tree and non-tree cultivation. Further, our objective is to explore the role of tree planting behavior onclimate risk mitigation. The research employs structural equation modeling to estimate theimpact of climate risk belief on land use choice, mainly tree plantation.

